My project, PlantingyourDay, is a web application that uses the Flask framework alongside SQL to manage the back end, and HTML,CSS, Bootstrap, and Javascript to manage the front end. It has been made to be dynamic regardless of the address or file names as long as there is a host with both the database and the images. The following paragraphs will be a tour of the design of the website and how it was built.


Back End
In order to start we need to talk about the back-end. The backend is built using the Flask framework, this framework helps both handle requests and manage the information between the front-end, and the database. The database consists of users, plants which manages the inventory of plants, owned which stores what users own which plants, and todo which stores a user's goals and tasks. When flask is run the application is configured in the first few lines of “app.py”. Afterwards the entire file comprises the different routes the website has and their functionalities. Before every route/function that involves changing or getting information from the database, a connection to it is made in the current thread and is then closed after it is no longer needed. While their purpose changes from route to route they all essentially render a template, with new information if posted, or redirect to another route that renders a template while they simply manage the information. The majority of the routes are dedicated to account management. The design of the log-in and log-out route were adapted from the distribution code of CS50’s Finance problem set and the register route was adapted from my solution to the problem set; however they were all almost completely changed in order to fit for this project. Register specifically now also automatically sets the user’s profile picture to the default upon creation. After this all the following routes are wrapped in a decorator function which requires them to be logged in to access. The change_password, update, and change_picture routes are add-ons to these rudimentary account functions and all together manage everything that has to do with the accounts. They all work in the same way by getting information from the database using SQL, working and/or updating the information, then rendering it or redirecting to something that does render the necessary information. Users can change their password, delete their account, and change their profile pictures with these routes and they’re all accessed through the account information page. The account information route itself only renders the account information page with the corresponding information. The other routes present are shop, index, and all the index utilities such as update_goal, delete_goal, and add. The shop works as you’d expect connecting to the database in order to see the current plant inventory and the amount of money the user has. Once the user tries to purchase a plant a request is sent via POST and the necessary error checking is done there. The index displays the user’s current goals and all the plants they currently own. From here the different utilities are called to update a goal, delete a goal, and add a goal. After a goal is complete the user is rewarded with a certain amount of coins that they can then use in the shop. This specifically is done via the delete route which integrates ajax to minimize reloading. 


Front End
The next area of discussion would be the front-end side of things. To start off, almost every page uses the layout.html template as a foundation for their own. This layout consists of the navbar, space for the body, and the footer. The footer is being randomized on load by Javascript in order to display messages to the user, it is needless to say that this is present in every page. The space for the body is a fluid container and a row container to hold whatever is present in the page that uses it. Every page is then started off with a column of corresponding size that then splits off into smaller rows and columns accordingly. The first pages to talk about should be the log-in, register, change password, delete account, and change picture pages. They all POST to their corresponding routes and all simply extend the layout while adding their corresponding forms. The next topic of interest is the index page. This is the most complex page by far, it shows all the information the user wants to see. The base container for it all is a column of size 11 on XL and size 12 on all following breakpoints. This structure is used in both the index, and the shop. The user’s todo’s and their plant collection is split into a row and each section is a column that then has its own information. This template and any of the following use Jinja in order to dynamically display the information. Next is the shop page that works in the same way as the index but instead of displaying two columns, it displays one with many rows of the current shop catalogue. The final page of interest is the account information page that is simply a container that has all the information a user may need for their use.
